Welcome back everyone in this lecture.
We're going to go and have a high level overview of the course curriculum.
That way you can understand how the Course is structured.
And more importantly if you already know some topics that are in the course curriculum you can understand
which sections to skip and where you can just dive in.
So let's get started.
Here are the major topics in the course curriculum and we go through them one by one.
Keep in mind some of these major topics are then divided further into subsections.
So after going through his course curriculum you should understand everything that we teach in the course
as well as if you already know something where to jump in.
Further along the course so we start off an introduction section that's the section you're in right
now.
It's the Course overview lecture.
This lecture is described in the course curriculum.
The fake Q lecture which is just an article lecture of some useful links and frequently asked questions.
And remember if you're ever looking for the source files that are available as a zip file here either
in FNQ lecture or in the course overview lecture the one previous to this one that said Don't skip.
OK so you should already have an understanding of where to find your notes.
By the time you're doing this lecture then we have a couple of sections that I'm going to label as a
front end crash course.
Essentially you have three major crash courses for the front end material and that's a crash course
on HVM L C Ss and bootstrap.
For now many users especially have already done previous web development.
You may be already familiar with those and concepts.
So if you are please feel free to skip.
According to your skill level each of these crash courses does have some sort of project exercise.
At the end of it.
So if you want to make sure that your understanding is up to par which with what we teach here in the
course you can always just skip ahead to those project exercises.
Check them out and then see if you can pass them.
So we're going to cover those three main topics aist in LCS and bootstrap.
Those are really just the basic level you need to know in order to continue on and learning about Python
and flask.
So once we go through those front end crash courses they're pretty short sections each.
Then we have a larger section which is just an overall Python crash course essentially a mini Python
course inside of this entire class course and we've broken this up into two levels because it's very
likely that someone already has Python experience if they're interested in learning flask.
So I divided it up into basic Python and then advanced Python.
The basic Python that discusses things from the very basics such as objects data types.
Very basic data structures.
How to perform a control flow like if an L statements and then ends up talking about functions.
So if you already understand that stuff and you already know how to create a function of Python you
may be able to skip that first level of basic Python then Level 2.
That's a more advanced action on Python that discusses things like object oriented programming decorators
and how to create your own modules.
Those kind of ideas aren't necessary to fully understand the flask framework so maybe have a little
bit of basic Python you know to create basic functions but you haven't learned about things like decorators
or object oriented programming.
Then you can jump into the advanced Python section and check that all out OK.
So after that entire section on Python those two sections then we actually start learning about flask.
So we'll start off with the very basics of flask.
Essentially an overview of flask applications and really get a focus here on how to route a flask application
to show different web pages on your actual web app that we have a couple of sections on building out
this idea of basic flasks and there are three really important sections and we'll divided up into templates
forms and databases.
So the template section that's going to show you how to actually connect the HTL files and essentially
all that front end stuff to flask and then also cover Jinja templating there so you can directly send
information from glass to the front end of your web site.
Then the next section will talk about forms essentially how to create forms with flasks for input.
We talk about HMO forms and the front end crash course section but then this shows you how you can easily
create those forms with flask automatically.
Then after that we talk about databases essentially once you actually get input from a form how do you
save that to your database so you can retrieve it later on.
So we talk all about databases in that third section.
Now by the time you're finished with this section you actually understand how to make a basic web site
you understand how to take in user information save it report it back.
So by the time you're done with flask basics templates forms and databases you really have a ton of
knowledge of how to actually create real web applications.
So then we're talking about our more advanced topics such as how to actually structure larger flask
applications.
So the previous lectures before this are going to talk more simplified applications but here we're really
going to have an in-depth discussion on how we like something called blueprints to organize flask applications
that can scale to a much larger structure that would talk about things like user authentication.
So have a whole section on that.
And those are things like user registration user logons just general authentication practices such as
storing passwords and we'll even talk about auth for outside authorization.
Those are the kind of things when you go to a Web site and it says log in with Facebook or logon to
Google or log in with Twitter.
That's called authorisations.
You basically like any other web site handly your authorization and show you how to do that with something
like Twitter to log into the Web site in case you don't want to implement your own registration or logging
practice.
Then we get to a very large portion of the course which is a huge social network project essentially
taking everything we've learned so far including the front end the Python the flask and all that good
stuff and we create a very large project that has gone to a lot of those important features altogether.
So we'll talk about having multiple users authenticating them how to register new users to your Web
site how to connect all those users to non-skilled database how to use blueprints to have posts and
how users can follow other users.
So all those little details and we'll have that all in a very large projects are going to learn a lot
and will be a really nice review as you code along.
And it's going to be an awesome project and later on to either your friends or your colleagues.
Then after that we talk about some more esoteric topics which you may or may not need the pending on
the scale of our Web site.
And those are going to be things like touching at rest.
API.
So you can create a restful interface for your web site and also other things like how to accept payments
we stripe.
So it may be you do or don't want to actually accept money for your web site but we'll show you how
to do that anyways.
And some of these more advanced topics it is going to be shorter sections sister a little more advance
and you may or may not need them.
OK.
And that's really essentially the entire course curriculum.
Kind of a broad level here.
And as you go through of course we'll dive into much better detail about all those little individual
topics.
All right.
If you have any questions on where is a good fit for you to jump forward in the course.
If you already feel familiar some of these topics feel free to post the Q&A and forums or send me a
message.
I'm always happy to help you find a good starting point.
Thanks.
And up next we'll talk about just in general how a flask website works.
OK we'll see you there.